# DIS

Suite of DIS-compliant simulation tools implementing the IEEE Std 1278.1-2012 Application Protocols and SISO-REF-010-2020 Enumerations for Simulation Interoperability. Includes entity simulators (tanks, warships, troops, fighter aircraft), exercise control utilities, scenario generators and visualizers. Full PDU field definitions are taken from IEEE 1278.1-2012; all enumeration values and bit-fields follow SISO-REF-010-2020 Version 28. Reference PDUs and enumeration tables are available online via NPS:
https://faculty.nps.edu/brutzman/vrtp/mil/navy/nps/disEnumerations/JdbeHtmlFiles/pdu/index.htm.

Each simulator and tool is dockerized.

## Components

### Exercise Manager

Allows to Start, stop, resume and terminate exercises.

#### Specific Behavior

- The realWorldTime and *simulationTime* fields in the *StartResumePdu* won't be used. The exercise will start once the PDU is received.
- Exercise freeze will be triggered by the value of the *Frozen Behavior field* (a value of 1 inficates excercise freeze).
- Exercise termination will be triggered by the value of the *Reason field* (a value of 2 indicates exercise termination).

#### Changelog

- 2023/03/10: Version 0.1, basic functionalities implemented. Allows to manage exercise status.


### Vehicle Simulator

Provides a basic vehicle framework and generic behaviour.

#### Specific Behavior

- Received PDUs with fields *exerciseID*, *applicationID* and *siteID* that are not listed in *cfg/pdu_filter.json* won't be processed.
  
- This simulator will set the inicial navigation values (position, heading, speed, etc) once a valid EntityStatePDU referencing the own vehicle is received (and processed), this means a ESPDU cointaing the same value of entityID as configured.

#### Changelog


## Others

To run the apps, you must run the following command in host machine:
xhost +

All log files generated by the applications will be stored in the `logs` folder
located in the project root. When using the provided `docker-compose.yml` each
container mounts this directory at `/app/logs` so the files can be inspected
from the host machine.
